Streams (#157)
SteeltoeOSS/Documentation: api/v3/stream/stream-reference.md

> # Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Steeltoe Streams Reference
```

This section explores the components that make up the Steeltoe Streams framework together with how to build Streams based applications.

> ## Main Concepts

Reviewer: Is this section needed? An expanding table of contents already gets generated for each page based on the headers... here's what I see on the right hand side of this page after scrolling down a tiny amount:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3947063/117181498-4d1db880-ada3-11eb-8173-d29016c0fe1f.png)

Author: I would say leave this in because it helps to see at the outset of the document what the main things are and its not exactly the same as the toc.

Author: @jkonicki  what do you think? leave it in or take this out?

### Bindings

As stated earlier, bindings provide the bridge between the external messaging system and application-provided methods which act as producers and consumers.

You can use the `EnableBinding` attribute in your application to declare bindings for your application or you can use service container extension methods to explicitly add them to the container yourself.

For example the following code shows a fully configured and functioning Streams application service that receives strings from a destination with the name `input` and
and converts the strings to uppercase and then sends the results to a destination with the name `output`.  Notice that the applications `Handle()` method expects the message payload from `input` to be a `string`, and as a result the Streams framework will attempt to convert the incomming message payload to a `string` before calling the handler method (see [Content Type Negotiation](#content-type-negotiation) section).

```csharp
[EnableBinding(typeof(IProcessor))]

> public class Program {
> 
> 	public static async Task Main(string[] args)
>   {
>     var host = StreamsHost
>       .CreateDefaultBuilder<Program>(args)
>       .Build();
>       await host.StartAsync();
> 	}
> 
> 	[StreamListener(IProcessor.INPUT)]
> 	[SendTo(IProcessor.OUTPUT)]
> 	public string Handle(string value) {
> 		Console.WriteLine("Received: " + value);
> 		return value.ToUpper();
> 	}
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public class Program
{
  public static async Task Main(string[] args)
  {
    var host = StreamsHost
      .CreateDefaultBuilder<Program>(args)
      .Build();
      await host.StartAsync();
  }

  [StreamListener(IProcessor.INPUT)]
  [SendTo(IProcessor.OUTPUT)]
  public string Handle(string value)
  {
    Console.WriteLine("Received: " + value);
    return value.ToUpper();
  }
}
```

tabs result in funky layout

```

> If you examine the `EnableBinding` attribute you'll see that it takes one or more interface types as parameters. Each interface represents a binding and each method defined in the binding interface represents a bindable or more frequently refered to as a destination. Normally, each bindable represents a named message channel when using channel-based binders such as RabbitMQ, Kafka, etc. However other types of bindings can provide other types of bindables which are intended to support native features of the underlying messaging technology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you examine the `EnableBinding` attribute, you'll see that it takes one or more interface types as parameters. Each interface represents a binding and each method defined in the binding interface represents a bindable (frequently referred to as a destination). Normally, each bindable represents a named message channel when using channel-based binders such as RabbitMQ, Kafka, etc. However, other types of bindings can provide other types of bindables which are intended to support native features of the underlying messaging technology.
```

Out of the box, Steeltoe provides the three bindings that are commonly used in messaging based services. `ISource`, `ISink`, and `IProcessor` bindings are generic enough that you can use them with many different messaging systems.

* *ISink:* Defines a contract for a message consumer by providing a destination from which messages are consumed.
* *ISource:* Defines the contract for a message producer by providing the destination to which the produced message is sent.
* *IProcessor:* Encapsulates both the `ISink` and the `ISource` contracts by exposing two destinations that allow consumption and production of messages.

The following listing shows the definition of the various interfaces:

```csharp
public interface ISink 
{
  const string INPUT = "input";

  [Input(INPUT)]
  ISubscribableChannel Input { get; }
}

public interface ISource
{
  const string OUTPUT = "output";

  [Output(OUTPUT)]
  IMessageChannel Output { get; }
}

public interface IProcessor : ISource, ISink
{
}
```

Notice in the above the usage of `Input` and `Output` attributes on the property getters.

> The `Input` attribute identifies an input channel from which messages received enter the service.  Notice that the construtor argument gives it a name and the type of channel is defined by the return type of the getter (`ISubscribableChannel`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Input` attribute identifies an input channel from which messages received enter the service.  Notice that the constructor argument gives it a name and the type of channel is defined by the return type of the getter (`ISubscribableChannel`).
```

> The `Output` attribute identifies an output channel, through which messages are published. Again, notice the construtor argument gives it a name and the type of channel is defined by the return type of the getter (`ISubscribableChannel`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Output` attribute identifies an output channel, through which messages are published. Again, notice the constructor argument gives it a name and the type of channel is defined by the return type of the getter (`ISubscribableChannel`).
```

As you can see, both the `Input` and `Output` attributes optionally take a `channel name` as a constructor parameter.  If a name is not provided, the name of the annotated method is used as the channel name.

Steeltoe Streams automatically creates an implementation of the interface for you upon start up and makes it available in the service container.

> While not a common use case, you can use this in the application service by adding it as a constructor argument to a service you have written. This will give you access to the channel directly using the property getter.  This is not a common way of accessing the channel as Steeltoe provides a much easier programming model which is normally used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While not a common use case, you can use this in the application service by adding it as a constructor argument to a service you have written. This will give you access to the channel directly via the property getter.  This is not a common way of accessing the channel as Steeltoe provides a much easier programming model which is normally used.
```

> While the out of the box bindings satisfy the majority of use cases, you can also define your own contracts by defining your own binding interfaces by using the `Input` and `Output`
> attributes to identify the actual bindables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the out-of-the-box bindings satisfy the majority of use cases, you can also create your own contracts by defining your own binding interfaces with the `Input` and `Output` attributes identifying the actual bindables.
```

For example:

```csharp
public interface IBarista
 {
  [Input]
  ISubscribableChannel Orders { get; }

  [Output]
  IMessageChannel HotDrinks { get; }

  [Output]
  IMessageChannel ColdDrinks { get; }
}
```

Using the interface shown in the preceding example as a parameter to `EnableBinding` triggers the creation of the three bound channels named `Orders`, `HotDrinks`, and `ColdDrinks`,
respectively.

You can provide as many binding interfaces as you need as arguments to the `EnableBinding` annotation:

```csharp
[EnableBinding(typeof(IOrders), typeof(IPayment))]
public class Program {
{
  static async Task Main(string[] args)
  {
    var host = StreamsHost
      .CreateDefaultBuilder<Program>(args)
      .Build();
      await host.StartAsync();

> 	}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  }
```

}
```

> Notice in the above examples the retun type of the individual bindables (e.g. interface properties). The bindable return type `IMessageChannel` is a channel component provided as part of the Steeltoe Messaging infrastructure for interfacing with outbound destinations.  The `ISubscribableChannel` is also provided by Steeltoe Messaging and is used for inbound message reception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice in the above examples the return type of the individual bindables (e.g. interface properties). The bindable return type `IMessageChannel` is a channel component provided as part of the Steeltoe Messaging infrastructure for interfacing with outbound destinations.  The `ISubscribableChannel` is also provided by Steeltoe Messaging and is used for inbound message reception.
```

The above bindings support event-based message consumption but sometimes you need more control of the interactions with the messaging infrastructure(e.g. rate of consumption). So instead of using a `ISubscribableChannel` channel, you can instead use a pollable message source, `IPollableMessageSource`.

The following example shows how to define a pollable binding.

```csharp
public interface IPolledBarista {

  [Input]
  IPollableMessageSource Orders { get; }
}
```

In this case, an implementation of `IPollableMessageSource` is bound to the channel with the name `Orders`. See [Using Polled Consumers](#polled-consumers) for more details.

As mentioned earlier the `Input` and `Output` attributes allow you to specify a customized channel name for the channel, as shown in the following example:

```csharp
public interface IBarista 
{
  [Input("InboundOrders")]
  ISubscribableChannel Orders { get; }
}
```

In the above example the created channel is named `InboundOrders`.

> Normally, you need not access to the individual channels or bindings directly, however there may be times, such as testing or other corner cases, when you do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally, you do not need to access the individual channels or bindings directly, however there may be times (such as testing or other corner cases) when you do.
```

Aside from generating channels for each binding and registering them as services in the container, Steeltoe Streams also generates a service that implements the interface.
That means you can have access to the interfaces representing the bindings or individual channels by injecting the binding interface into your application component.

### Producing and Consuming Messages

The easiest way to write a a Steeltoe Stream application service is by using Steeltoe Streams attributes.

#### StreamListener Attribute

Steeltoe Streams provides a `StreamListener` attribute, modeled after other Steeltoe Messaging annotations (e.g. `RabbitListener`, and others) and supports features such as content-based routing and others.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        [EnableBinding(typeof(IProcessor))]
        public class CatsAndDogs
        {
         
            [StreamListener(ISink.INPUT, "Headers['type']=='Dog'")]
            public void Handle(Dog dog)
            {
                Console.WriteLine("Dog says:"+ dog.Bark);
            }

            [StreamListener(ISink.INPUT, "Headers['type']=='Cat'")]
            public void Handle(Cat cat)
            {
                Console.WriteLine("Cat says:" +cat.Meow);
            }
        }
    }
```

It is important to understand some of the mechanics behind content-based routing using the `Condition` property of `StreamListener`, especially in the context of the type of the message as a whole.
It may also help if you familiarize yourself with the [Content Type Negotiation](#content-type-negotiation) before you proceed.

Consider the following example:

The code below is perfectly valid. It compiles and deploys without any issues, yet it never produces the result you expect. 

```csharp
public class Program 
{
  static async Task Main(string[] args)
  {
    var host = StreamsHost
      .CreateDefaultBuilder<CatsAndDogs>(args)
      .Build();
      await host.StartAsync();

> 	}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  }
```

```java
--spring.cloud.stream.function.definition=toUpperCase|wrapInQuotes
```

NOTE: One of the great benefits of functional composition support provided by _Spring Cloud Function_ is
the fact that you can compose _reactive_ and _imperative_ functions.

For example, the above composition could be defined as such (if both functions present):

```java
--spring.cloud.stream.function.definition=reactiveUpperCase|wrapInQuotes
```
-->

#### Polled Consumers

// TODO: This entire section needs to be validated, all the C# code which follows needs to be validated as its significantly different than the java example

When implementing polled consumers, you are required to poll the `IPollableMessageSource` on demand.
Consider the following example of a polled consumer:

```csharp
public interface IPolledConsumerBinding
{
  [Input]
  IPollableMessageSource DestIn { get; }

  [Output]
  IMessageChannel DestOut { get; }

}
```

Given the polled consumer in the preceding example, you might use it as follows:

```csharp
public class Worker : BackgroundService, IMessageHandler
{
  private readonly IPolledConsumerBinding _binding;

>   pubilc Worker(IPolledConsumerBinding binding)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  public Worker(IPolledConsumerBinding binding)
```
